# Code of Conduct

## Scope

This code of conduct covers issues and pull requests written for this
repository. The code applies to project contributors and community
members engaging with the repository.

## Standards for Behavior

The goal of this repository is to develop quality software that serves
a real purpose while also being stable and compatible with the
computing systems targeted by the software. To that end, the project
in this repository values input from people with diverse backgrounds,
each of whom may have strengths that compensate for the weaknesses of
another contributor or community member. One person may notice issues
or errors that the other person misses.

Collaboration is beneficial to the success of this project.

### Encouraged Behaviors

This code of conduct encourages behaviors with the aim of creating a
productive and welcoming community of collaboration. Within
discussions on this repository, each community member should strive to
serve the other to accomplish project goals.

- **Having an open mind to others' ideas** can give you opportunities
  to gain insight into project goals, development challenges and
  coding mistakes that your own eyes may not discern as easily.
  Remember that each of us has only a limited experience and capacity
  to perceive.

- **Assuming no malice** in innocent exchanges of ideas can promote a
  community where people are not afraid to share the least of their
  ideas. Each of us makes mistakes in life, and collaborating on
  software projects is part of this life. Since we each come from
  different backgrounds, conflicts can arise in how we understand each
  other through our feedbacks and constructive criticisms. Keep that
  in mind as people contribute to this repository. Be respectful and
  fogiving of other community members, encouraging each other to learn
  from our mistakes, that we ourselves may even grow as individuals.

- **Focusing on the project goals** in discussions conducted in this
  repository can help contributors and community members accomplish
  their goals for this project. An off-topic comment, light-hearted or
  otherwise, might at best fail to serve its purpose within a
  discussion on this repository, and at worst may insult a fellow
  community member.

- **Maintaining a clear and straightforward tone** of communication in
  discussions can increase the chances that your ideas are
  successfully and accurately communicated. More accurate
  communication can lead to faster issue diagnosis, more streamlined
  progress on project goals, and an overall improved community
  rapport. If people are left guessing the meaning of your words and
  thoughts, your input into repository discussions will fail to serve
  other community members and contributors. People may also assume the
  worst meaning for your ideas or otherwise feel uncomfortable
  engaging your ideas.

### Disallowed Behaviors

This code of conduct does not allow behavior that hinders the
productivity of the project in this repository or alienates its
contributors and community members. Keep in mind that the behaviors
listed in this subsection have real-world consequences.

- **Threatening violence**, even jokes that can be interpreted as
  threats of violence, can (and most likely will) make community
  members uncomfortable.

- **Discriminating** against people from any background on personal
  bases fails to recognize that each of us has both real strengths and
  real weaknesses, and that using our strengths to serve others,
  wherever the community has a need, is the best way to help this
  repository flourish, and the best way to help each other succeed.

- **Harassing** other contributors or community members working with
  this project can distract from productivity, hinder a welcoming
  environment, and cause distress that follows people beyond this
  project. Any repeated or repetitive behavior that remains unwanted
  by the recipient(s) of the behavior can distract, hinder and cause
  this sort of distress. Pay attention to feedback: if someone
  disliked your comment or remark the first or second time you make
  it, that person probably will dislike it (as much if not more) the
  third and fourth time as well.

- **Invading the privacy** of other community members and project
  contributors, as well as disclosing personal information on
  repository discussions without consent, does not contribute to the
  development of the software within this repository and is out of
  place. Invading privacy is also uncomfortable to community members,
  and may compromise a person's safety or well-being beyond this
  project.

- **Posting of sexually obscene content** within this project's
  discussions does not contribute to the repository, and instead
  distracts from other ideas and deters collaboration.

## Reports and Investigations

If you find a possible violation of this code of conduct, feel free to
contact one of the conduct team members listed below with a
description of the possible violation. Within that description,
include as best as possible the following information:

- The **location** of the violating discourse or communication (a URL
  if the discourse is online)

- The **nature** of the violation (i.e. why the discourse might be a
  violation)

- Any **contextual information** that may not be readily apparent from
  the discourse itself

After receiving a report, receipt of the report shall first be
confirmed by an e-mail to the original reporter. Once the report has
been confirmed by e-mail, the discourse will be investigated, along
with the contextual information, to determine whether the discourse
violates the code of conduct. The investigators of the violation
should aim to gather the necessary facts and conclude their
investigation within one week of confirming the report. If a person on
the conduct team has a reasonable conflict of interest with the
investigation, the person should inform the other members of the
conduct team and excuse themselves from the investigation.

Next, the conduct team (excluding members with conflicts of interest)
shall thoroughly review the facts obtained from the investigation. The
review should first establish whether a violation has in fact occured,
then decide which course of action is best for addressing the event
(whether violation or non-violation). The team should consider the
impact of each course of action not only on the parties to the report,
but also to the rest of this repository's community. Courses of action
can include:

- A **public warning** to the community member in question, preferably
  near or in the same thread as the discourse, explaining clearly the
  nature of the violation (or near-violation if there is one).

- A **private communication** to the community member in question,
  also explaining clearly the nature of the violation (or
  near-violation if there is one), with the reporter CC'd (copied) on
  the communication if the reporter consents to being CC'd.

If the above courses of action do not lead to a resolution of the
matter, the conduct team may consider one of these stronger actions:

- A **temporary suspension** or ban from the project's repository

- A **permanent ban** from the project's repository

Bans from the repository should not be taken lightly, and the conduct
team should consider bans as actions of a last resort. They represent
a failure to both resolve the violation and reconcile the community
members.

Before taking the chosen course of action, one member of the team
should contact the original reporter and inform the reporter about

- The decision on whether or not there was a violation, with a clear
  explanation of the decision, and

- The course of action chosen by the conduct team, with an explanation
  for the choice of action.

After the conduct team has communicated this information to the
reporter, the reporter should respond to the conduct team with either
a consent to the course of action chosen, or a suggestion of an
alternative course of action. The original reporter may not be
comfortable with the conduct team's first decision, so the team should
be open to feedback from the reporter. Except in extreme
circumstances, the conduct team should not take an action without the
consent of the original reporter.

This review should not be rushed, but should carefully consider all
the facts at hand and both sides of the issue. The review shall not be
partial for or against any one side, and especially should avoid
partiality based on the background or other personal basis of the
reporter or the community member in question. Letting the review take
three or four days may be appropriate.

## Conduct Team Contact Information

The current members of the conduct team include:

- Cody Licorish (`svgmovement+concerns <at> gmail <dot> com`)

## Remarks in Closing

As this repository's community develops, this code of conduct may need
adjustment, possibly to clarify standards and responsibilities, and
especially to update contact information for the person or people on
the conduct team responsible for responding to and investigating
reports of disallowed and abusive behavior. Note that certain types of
behavior, either mentioned or not mentioned in this code of conduct,
may also violate terms of service for this repository's hosting
websites or violate applicable law.
